.\"
.\" $Id: xbattbar.man,v 1.13.2.1 2001/02/02 05:25:29 suguru Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2001 Suguru Yamaguchi <suguru@wide.ad.jp>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
.\" by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.Dd December 5, 1998
.Dt XBATTBAR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm xbattbar
.Nd show battery status in X Window
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm xbattbar
.Op Fl a 
.Op Fl t Ar thickness
.Op Fl p Ar interval
.Op Fl I Ar color
.Op Fl O Ar color
.Op Fl i Ar color
.Op Fl o Ar color
.Op Ar top | bottom | left | right
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm xbattbar
shows the current (laptop) battery status in the X window environment.
Battery status is obtained through the APM kernel module.
The APM kernel module depends on your UNIX platform,
therefore, consult your documentation for its detail.
.Pp
.Nm xbattbar
shows its battery status in a simple bar indicator.
.Nm -a
option makes the indicator window keep always on top of your screen.
The thickness of the indicator is 3 pixels in default and
you can set the thickness as a parameter of 
.Nm -t
option.
This indicator is appeared in the bottom of the display, as its default.
The option
.Nm top,
.Nm left,
or
.Nm right
forces the status indicator to be at the top, left, and right of the
display,
respectively.
Though it's a default, you can also use
.Nm buttom
as the option.
.Pp
In the case the AC line is on-line (plugged in),
its color of the bar indicator consists of "green" and "olive drab"
portions.
The "green" portion shows its battery charging level.
These colors can be changed by
.Nm -I
and
.Nm -O
options.
In the other case (AC line is off-line),
the "blue" portion of the bar indicator shows the percentage of
its remaining battery level.
The color conbination for the AC off-line case can be changed by
.Nm -i
and
.Nm -o
options.
.Pp
.Nm xbattbar
trys to know its battery status in every 10 seconds in default.
This is achived by APM polling.
.Nm -p
option sets the polling interval in second.
.Pp
If the mouse cursor enters in the status indicator,
the diagnosis window appears in the center of the display,
which shows both AC line status and battery remaining level.
This diagnosis window disappears if the mouse cursor leaves from
the status indicator.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr xbatt 1
\- an official battery status check command on BSD/OS 3.0,
(but it's not fancy).
.Sh AUTHOR
Suguru Yamaguchi <suguru@wide.ad.jp>,
Akira Kato <kato@wide.ad.jp>,
Noriyuki Shigechika <nazo@wide.ad.jp>
